In this lecture, you'll learn how to install Cisco Packet Tracer, which is the software used for the
labs. To get the software,
the first thing that you have to do is sign up for the free Introduction to Packet Tracer course,
which you can find on the Cisco Network Academy website.
So, I'm on the page already.
You can see the URL up here at the top, and then I'm going to hover my mouse over 'Sign up today!'
and click on English.
Then when the next page loads, I'll enter in my name here and my email address.
I created a temporary email here to do this demo, and then solve the math question, and then I can
click on Submit.
Then, it tells me that they've sent an activation email to my inbox, so I will go there, and I can
see the message coming in now into my inbox, so I will click on that. I can see there's a link here
to activate the account, so I will click on that. The next page asks me to create my account at
Cisco.com, which will give me access to this Cisco Network Academy. It's already filled my detail and my
name in here for me.
It asks me some additional details here, including setting a password.
I've already filled that in, so now I can click on Register.
Then on the next page, it asks me to sign in, so I'll enter my email address, and then click on Next, and then
enter my password, and I can click on Sign in. It's then going to ask me for yet more details, so I will
fill all those in.
I have already,
and then I can click on Create Account. Then I can click on Launch Course, and that will finally take me
into the Introduction to Packet Tracer course.
So if you're haven't used Packet Tracer before, this course is useful. It will teach you how to build your
own projects in there. I'll actually show you how to do that quickly here,
but if you want to have a longer course about that, then you can watch this Introduction to Packet Tracer course.
The other thing that we can do from in here is to actually download Packet Tracer.
To do that, I need to click on the My NetAcad button over here on the left.
I can also just go to www.netacad.com and log in there.
That will bring me to this page, and under the Resources menu, I can click on Download Packet Tracer, and then on
the page here, I select the version for the Operating System I'm running on.
You can get it for Windows, Linux, or Mac. I'm on 64-bit Windows here,
so I'm going to click that option, and then that is going to download the installation file to my Downloads
folder.
It's 146 Megabytes, so it might take a little bit of time.
I'll just give this a couple more seconds, and then it will be done.
And then when that is ready, I can go to my Downloads folder, and I can see it there.
So, I double click on the executable. In windows, click on
Yes
to accept this, accept the agreement.
It's a very simple install, I'm basically going to just be clicking Next, Next, Next here.
So I do that, and then it's going to install Packet Tracer.
This is going to take a little bit of time as well, so I'll pause the video again here and come back when
it's done.
When the installation has completed, I can click on finish, and that is going to launch Packet Tracer
And when it finishes starting up here, it's going to ask me to log in with that same username and password
again.
You're going to have to do this every time you use Packet Tracer,
it is a mild annoyance. So I'll put in my username, which was ptdemo@flackbox.com, and then
on the next page, I'm going to put in my password in there, and then I can click on Sign In. This is
now going to open up Packet Tracer for me. When I open it like this is going to be just a blank project
with nothing in there.
If you do want to create your own projects, you'll see that you've got the devices down here at the bottom.
So, there are all of my different routers. I can just click on here, and I can drag and drop a couple
of routers into my topology. But, say that I want a switch as well. You can see down in the bottom left,
it's Routers that are selected there. We'll like to add a switch. Just over the right of there is Switches.
I would click on that, and then I can select the switch that I want, and drag and drop that in as well.
Then, I also need to connect my devices, so I'll click on the button here to add connections. You need
to use the right type,
so I'll add just straight-through ethernet connections here. I'm going to click that button, and then I
can click on my router and select the interface that I want to connect the cable to, and then click
on my switch and select a port
I'm going to connect it to on my switch. And then, I need to click on the link button again.
So each time you add a new link, you need to click on the link button again. I'm going to select the port
on my router I want to plug the cable into, and then click on the switch, and select the port on the
switch I'm going to plug that into. Then to actually configure your devices, you just click on them,
so I'll click on my first router here, and then click on the CLI tab, and then that gets me into the Command
Line Interface for that router. Okay, so that's how you can quickly build your own typologies to practice
with in Packet Tracer. For this course, you don't need to build your own topologies because I'm going to
be supplying pre-built projects for every single technology that you're going to be learning
on the Cisco devices, and I'll show you how to use the projects that are provided with the course in
the next lecture.